Transcribed by SubEasy. Upgrade to Pro to remove this message

Hello, everyone. In this session, we'll talk about News Lead. Mainly, we are going

to talk about the definition, the function, classification, and what a good News Lead

looks like. First, the definition of News Lead. News

Lead is one information-packed sentence or simple paragraph which expands on the main

points as introduced in the headline. Usually, it is the first sentence or the first paragraph

of a news report and follows the subject-verb-object-sentence structure for clarity

Second, the function of News Lead. Leads are crucial to the success of any news story

It sets the tone and reflects the mood of the story. A good lead also paints a vivid

picture of the story with a few words, and it must grab the reader's attention and

hold it. Next, the classification. There are two kinds

of News Lead. One is Direct Lead, while the other is Delayed Lead

Direct Lead tells readers the most important aspects of the story. It focuses on the theme

of the event in the first paragraph. It is usually used in breaking news reports

Direct Leads give the most important facts about the story by answering most or all of

the main questions readers are supposed to ask. Who, what, where, when, why, and how

Therefore, Direct News Leads are also called 5Ws and H-Lead

On the other hand, Delayed Leads intentionally bury or delay the theme of the story. It entices

readers into the stories by hinting into the contents. It is often used for feature stories

and increasingly for news features. According to different kinds of technique

in expression and prominence of facts, Delayed Leads usually fall into the following 6 categories

Descriptive Lead, Quote Lead, Suspense Lead, Question Lead, Contrast Lead, and Anecdotal Lead

Now, let's take a look at a few examples. Both No. 1 and No. 2 are Direct Leads, also

called Summary Lead. No. 3 is the Suspense Lead

After mentioning the definition, function, and classification, let's move on to the

next part, that is, what is a Good News Lead? As we know, the Lead functions as a bait hook

that lures the reader into the story. To fulfilll its functions, the Lead tries to tell the

main points and outline the story in the most economical way. So the English News

Lead should be succinct, and they are usually limited with one sentence. And the Lead should

tell the readers the essence of the story. Therefore, the main factors, that is, the

5 Ws and Hs, who, what, when, where, why, and how, are usually being told in the Lead

paragraph. These words convey what we call News Values, which guide us to put the most

newsworthy elements at the very beginning, not the end of the paragraph. Moreover, Lead

is also called Grabber, which is to achieve the purpose of luring and attracting

To summarize, News Lead should be succinct, informative, and intriguing

Let's recap. Now, we know what a News Lead is, what its function is, how many types News

Leads there are, and what makes a Good News Lead. That's the end of this session. Thank

you for your watching
